---
title: Getting Started
description: ⚡️ High-performance image delivery and uploading at scale in Nuxt powered by Cloudinary.
---

## Installation

1. Add `@nuxtjs/cloudinary` dependency to your project:

::code-group

```bash [Yarn]
yarn add @nuxtjs/cloudinary
```

```bash [NPM]
npm install @nuxtjs/cloudinary
```

```bash [PNPM]
pnpm add @nuxtjs/cloudinary
```

::

2. Add it to your `modules` section in your `nuxt.config`:

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["@nuxtjs/cloudinary"],
});
```

3. Create .env file with following `CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME` variable:

```bash
CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME=<YOUR_CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME>
```

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-check-circle"}
And that's it! You can now use Cloudinary in Nuxt ✨
::

```vue
<template>
  <CldImage
    src="cld-sample-5"
    width="987"
    height="987"
    alt="My Awesome Image"
  />
</template>
```

:cld-image{src="images/sneakers" width="900" height="900" alt="test" style="text-align: center; margin: 0 auto"}

## Options

Configure Nuxt Cloudinary easily with the `cloudinary` property.

```ts [nuxt.config]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    cloudName: 'fesfese4324',
    uploadPreset?: 'my-custom-preset',
    apiKey?: '12345',
    analytics?: true,
    cloud?: {},
    url?: {},
  }
}
```

### `cloudName`

- Default: `process.env.CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME`

Your unique Cloudinary Cloud Name. You can find it in the Cloudinary dashboard.

### `uploadPreset`

- Default: `-`

For example: `my-upload-preset`. Used with `CldUploadWidget` and `CldUploadButton` components

### `apiKey`

- Default: `-`

For example: `12345`. Used with `CldMediaLibrary` component.

### `analytics`

- Default: `true`

Enabling Cloudinary analytics.

### `cloud`

- Default: `-`

Top level configuration used for all composables and components. Check out all available options [here](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/cloudinary_sdks#configuration_parameters)

### `url`

- Default: `-`

Top level configuration used for all composables and components. Check out all available options [here](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/cloudinary_sdks#configuration_parameters)

## NuxtCloudinary vs Nuxt Image

You may be wondering what is the reason to have both Nuxt Cloudinary and Nuxt Image modules if they both have integration with Cloudinary and they tackle the aspect of optimized images.

This is a good question that should be answered by showing examples when one module is better than the other:

If you need just an optimized image/picture component with ability to connect to various providers (including Cloudinary) you may use `Nuxt Image`.

However, if you are looking for a solution that would allow you to use advanced AI powered image transformations, optimized videos, OG Images, and prebuilt components like ProductGallery, MediaLibrary, or UploadWidget, `Nuxt Cloudinary` will be a better solution for you.
