---
title: Options
description: 'Configuration options for Cloudinary module'
position: 2
category: Guide
---

To configure the module, you can use `cloudinary` section in `nuxt.config.js`.

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    // Cloudinary configuration options
  }
}
```

## Cloudinary options

## `cloudName`

* Type: `String`
* **Required**

The cloud name associated with your Cloudinary account. It is used to configure and enable Cloudinary features such as generating delivery asset URL. 

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    cloudName: '<your-cloud-name>'
  }
}
```

Cloud name presents in every delivered URL from Cloudinary, hence it's important to have it configured correctly.

<alert type="info">

You can find your cloud name details in **Dashboard** page, or in **Account Settings** page in [Cloudinary console](https://cloudinary.com/console)

</alert>

## `secure`

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `true`

Force secure HTTPS delivery urls for all assets (images + videos) generated by Cloudinary, even if they are embedded in HTTP originally.

Disable this flag to have all delivery urls built with HTTP protocol instead.

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    secure: false
  }
}
```

## `secureDistribution`

* Type: `String`
* Relevant only when `secure` is `true`

Set custom domain name for building **secure HTTPS** urls.

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    secureDistribution: 'your-custome-domain-name'
  }
}
```

<alert type="info">

Only relevant if you are Advanced plan Cloudinary user with private CDN distribution and custom CNAME set. You can see [more details here](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/advanced_url_delivery_options#private_cdns_and_cnames)

</alert>

## `cname`

* Type: `String`
* Use only when `secure` is `false`

Set custom domain name for building **non-secure HTTP** urls.

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    cname: 'your-custome-domain-name'
  }
}
```

<alert type="info">

Only relevant if you are Advanced plan Cloudinary user with private CDN distribution and custom CNAME set. You can see [more details here](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/advanced_url_delivery_options#private_cdns_and_cnames)

</alert>

## `privateCDN`

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

Set to `true` if you'd like to use private CDN distribution.

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    privateCDN: true
  }
}
```

<alert type="info">

Only relevant for Advanced plan Cloudinary users. You can see [more details here](https://cloudinary.com/documentation/advanced_url_delivery_options#private_cdns_and_cnames)

</alert>

## Module build options

## `useComponent`

* Type: `Boolean`
* Default: `false`

Enable it to switch to use [ready-made Vue components](/vue-components) for images and videos embedded with Cloudinary functionalities instead of [generating mode](/basic-usage).

```js[nuxt.config.js]
export default {
  cloudinary: {
    useComponent: true
  }
}
```

<alert>

Once enabled, you are no longer able to access `$cloudinary` within a component to build urls or element tags needed for images and videos.

</alert>